---
layout: post
title: Door lock barrel replacement
tags:
- BMW Repairs
- Cars
- From my old site
typo_id: 87
---
When the bracket holding the lock solenoid broke in my driver's side door lock
mechanism, the only solution was to replace the whole assembly.  A replacement
was obtained from a scrap yard and I just needed to exchange the lock barrels
so that my existing key would still work.  This repair procedure covers the
removal of the barrel from the replacement lock.

<!-- read more -->

With the door handle removed from the car, remove the two bolts holding the
metal plate in place and remove the plate.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 1]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_1.jpg)

Remove the metal clip from the protective plastic cover over the lock switch
and remove the cover.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 2]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_2.jpg)

It should now look like this.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 3]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_3.jpg)

Drive the pin out of the end of the lock. You will need to push it as far as
you can from one end, then grip it with pliers and pull it out the rest of the
way.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 4]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_4.jpg)

Remove the two parts from the end of the lock. The first one operates the
3 microswitches when you turn the key, the second is connected to the lock
solenoid and the door latch mechanism. The first one contains a spring but it
will remain in the part when you take it off if you are careful.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 5]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_5.jpg)

The lock barrel is now ready for removal. The thick metal oval ring around the
lock is the lock heater element.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 6]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_6.jpg)

Turn the door handle over and insert the key. Pull it out again with the lock
barrel still attached. Be careful, there's a ball bearing and spring behind
it...

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 7]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_7.jpg)

Here's a closeup of the ball bearing and spring. The ball bearing has been
slightly displaced, it should of course be sat on the end of the spring.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 8]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_8.jpg)

Here's a pic of the removed barrel. The 12 wafers will remain secure as long as
the key is inserted. Remove the key carefully and wrap the barrel in sellotape
or something to keep it all in one piece.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 9]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_9.jpg)

I removed one of the wafers so you could see it.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 10]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_10.jpg)

Here's a closeup of the wafer. You will note it has a number stamped on it,
each "depth" of wafer will have a different number. Also notice that each
corner has been formed into slight "teeth", this is to make the lock more
resistant to lock picking. The step on the inside is the bit that rides on the
key profile. If the profile is too shallow the wafer will not be pulled in
enough to clear the groove on the inside of the cylinder. If the profile is too
deep it will pull the wafer in so far that it sticks out the other side and
binds on the opposite groove of the cylinder. The bit sticking out the side
(where the number is stamped) sits over a hole containing a spring to keep the
wafer sticking out until the right key is inserted.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 11]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_11.jpg)

Finally a quick look at the mechanism for the "emergency unlock" procedure. You
insert the key and turn it clockwise (right hand side door, or anticlockwise
for the left hand door), the end stop for the turn occurs when a part of the
microswitch actuator (first circle) hits a small post on the side of the door
handle lever (second circle). If you lift the door handle the post moves out of
the way and allows the key to turn further. You can see from the mechanism that
there is no "magic art" to it, you turn it until it hits the stop, then lift
the handle and turn it some more. You can lift the handle before you start if
you like. I've read descriptions of the procedure which describe lifting the
handle at exactly the right moment, or pulling it out a certain distance, but
this is simply unnecessary. The mechanism is a lot simpler than people
perceive. Oh, and both my left hand and right hand locks have the same
mechanism so it should work on either.

![Images Articles 20030118211916675 12]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/20030118211916675_12.jpg)

