---
layout: post
title: Power cut
tags:
- General
typo_id: 31
---
Another power cut.  I went to bed late last night after spending all evening catching up with various things (OK, browsing [del.icio.us](https://del.icio.us/)).  I was just taking a leak at about 2am, on my way to bed, when all the lights went out, and I heard the sudden silence of my servers powering off.  The servers are on the landing outside the bathroom at the moment because my brother has the spare room.

I found my way upstairs using the feeble light of my [P900](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Ericsson_P900) and found a torch in my bedside table.  I then used my P900 again to find my way to the kitchen where I knew I had some batteries.  Once the torch was working I went to check the distribution board in the basement and everything was still switched on, so it was definitely a power cut.  I checked outside and the street lamps were still on, as were some lights in the houses opposite.

I did the only thing left to do - I went to bed.  Unfortunately I then heard Matthew (my 3 year old son) getting up to see why his night light had switched off, then crying out when he found that it didn't come on again no matter how many times he toggled the switch.  In then end I went to get him and he got into our bed.  An hour later and he still wasn't asleep, so he got put back into his own bed, which he wasn't very happy about.

The power came back on at about 05:30, which woke me up (briefly).  I'm now at work, desperately trying to stay awake.
